America's top diplomats in Israel where
he's expected to press Benjamin
Netanyahu on his strategy in Gaza and on
what happens after the fighting ends
Anthony blink's on his fourth tour of
the region since the 7th of October in
Saudi Arabia on Monday Mr blinkin
emphasized the need to prevent the
conflict from spreading earlier he met
the president of Israel Isaac Herzog who
thanked the US for standing steadfast
with
Israel Mr blinken's visit comes as
Hezbollah said one of it commanders was
killed in an apparent Israeli drone
strike in southern Lebanon Israel's
prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu was on
the northern border where he signaled
that he's prepared if necessary to
escalate military operations in Lebanon
hamas's health officials say more than
23,000 people have been killed in Gaza
by Israeli strike since the conflict
began three months ago here's Secretary
of State blinkin speaking after he met
the president of Israel Isaac Herzog um
I've just come from a number of
countries in the region uh Turkey Greece
uh Jordan cutter United Arab Emirates
Saudi Arabia and I want to be able to
share some of what I heard from those
Leaders with the president as well as
with the prime minister in the cabinet
later today um and of course we'll have
an opportunity to sit with the families
of some of the hostages and uh discuss
our Relentless efforts to bring everyone
home and back with their families uh and
there's lots to talk about uh particular
about the way
forward so I look forward to these
conversations as always great with you
now let's have a listen to what
president Herzog had to say as he
thanked Washington for its support of
Israel and here with the hypocrisy of
South Africa we will be there at the
international court of justice and will
present proudly our case of using
selfdefense under our most inherent
right under International humanitarian
law where we are doing our utmost under
extremely complicated circumstances on
the ground to make sure that there will
be no unintended consequences and no
civilian casualties well earlier I spoke
to our Middle East correspondent yolan
Nell who told us more about what we can
expect from Secretary of State blinken's
visit he's got a lot here to discuss um
both trying to stop a regional conflict
looking at luring the intensity of the
fighting in Gaza and also looking as he
was indicating uh there to the Future to
a post-war vision for Gaza and the
indication really is that this will give
some kind of reassurance uh to Israel's
Arab neighbors who uh Mr blinken has
been re meeting in recent days um and
you know he has a day now of of
back-to-back talks uh where he's he's
looking to achieve so much but then
events on the ground can really easily
overtake him here still the fighting
remains very fierce in Gaza from the
indications of the past day or so
particularly in the center and in the
south of the Gaza Strip despite the fact
the Israeli military um trying to give
assurances it's moving into a new phase
of less intense more targeted fighting
and also um as Mr linkoln has been
trying to calm things down a lot going
on uh behind the scenes diplomatically
between Israel and its neighbor Lebanon
we're getting indications of yet another
strike in southern Lebanon taking place
this morning that's not confirmed as yet
and yolan just briefly um obviously the
conversation will also be what a
postconflict Gaza would look
like that's right and really uh Mr
blinken has been saying here that he
wants to talk about the future
governance of Gaza this is something
that is generally considered to have
been um ignored uh somewhat by Israeli
political leaders it's taken some time
for the Israeli War cabinet to come
around to talking about that um and also
just to have a a brief plan published uh
by Israel's defense minister last week
giving um really an outline of what uh
Israel's strategy could look like saying
that Palestinians will be allowed to go
back to their homes Mr blinken um has
been saying that he thinks displaced
Palestinians must be allowed to go back
as soon as conditions allow uh but there
are some indications in Israel's media
that that could be tied to a possible
new hostage deal to bring home the 100
plus hostages that remain in captivity
in Gaza yoland n speaking to me